{\rtf1\ansi\deff0\nouicompat{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset2 Symbol;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sl240\slmult1\b\f0\fs48\lang9 What is Internet?\par
\b0\fs24 The Internet, sometimes called simply "the Net," is a worldwide system of computer networks -- a network of networks in which users at any one computer can, if they have permission, get information from \par
any other computer (and sometimes talk directly to users at other computers).\par
\par
The most common types of internet connections include:\par
\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl240\slmult1 DSL (digital subscriber line)\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}cable broadband.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}fibre optic broadband.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}wireless or Wi-Fi broadband.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}satellite and mobile broadband.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}dedicated leased line.\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\par
\b\fs44 How the Internet works?\b0\par
\fs24 Physically, the Internet uses a portion of the total resources of the currently existing public telecommunication networks. Technically, what distinguishes the Internet is its use of a set of protocols called \par
Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol (TCP/IP). Two recent adaptations of Internet technology, the Intranet and the extranet, also make use of the TCP/IP protocol.\par
\par
The Internet can be seen as having two major components:Network protocols and Hardware.\par
\par
\b The protocols\b0 , such as the TCP/IP suite, present sets of rules that devices must follow in order to complete tasks. Without this common collection of rules, machines would not be able to communicate.\par
The protocols are also responsible for translating the alphabetic text of a message into electronic signals that can be transmitted over the Internet, and then back again into legible, alphabetic text.\par
\par
\b Hardware\b0 , the second major component of the Internet, includes everything from the computer or smartphone that is used to access the Internet to the cables that carry information from one device to\par
 another. Additional types of hardware include satellites, radios, cell phone towers, routers and servers.\par
\par
\b\fs44 Uses of the internet:\par
\b0\fs24\par
In general, the Internet can be used to communicate across large or small distances, share information from any place in the world and access information or answers to almost any question in moments.\par
\par
Some specific examples of how the Internet is used include:\par
\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl240\slmult1 Social media and content sharing;\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}E-mail and other forms of communication, such as Internet Relay Chat (IRC), Internet telephony, instant messaging, video conferencing\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Education and self-improvement through access to online degree programs, courses and workshops and\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Searching for jobs -- both the employer and applicant use the Internet to post open positions, apply for jobs and recruit individuals found on social networking sites like LinkedIn.\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\par
Other examples include:\par
\par

\pard 
{\pntext\f0 i.\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlbody\pnf0\pnindent0\pnstart1\pnlcrm{\pntxta.}}
\fi-360\li720\sl240\slmult1 Online discussion groups and forums\par
{\pntext\f0 ii.\tab}Online dating\par
{\pntext\f0 iii.\tab}Online gaming\par
{\pntext\f0 iv.\tab}Research\par
{\pntext\f0 v.\tab}Reading electronic newspapers and magazines\par
{\pntext\f0 vi.\tab}Online shopping, or e-commerce.\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\par
\b\fs44 Applications of internet:\b0\fs24\par
There are various applications of internet in points, which are given below.\par
\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sl240\slmult1 Communication\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Job Search\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Online Shopping\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Web Browsing\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Stock Market Updates\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Travel\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Research\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}E-Commerce\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Online Payments\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Social Networking\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}E-banking\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Education\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Entertainment\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\par
\b\i 1. Communication:\b0\i0 Communication is also one of the most used applications of the Internet because today it is very easy to talk through the Internet and today almost everyone is communicating with\par
 each other through the Internet.\par
\b For example:\b0 Email,Skype,Google Meet,Zoom,WhatsApp,Facebook Messenger.\par
\b\i 2. Job Search:\b0\i0 In today's digital world it is very easy to find the job of your choice, yes you have read it right. Today you can easily find jobs related to your skills through the internet and give a direct\par
 interview to HR.Now you will say that how can we find jobs from the internet, so let us tell you that today there are many such applications of internet, which help you in finding jobs.\par
\b For example\b0 :Naukri.com,Monster.com,Freshersworld.com,Indeed.com,Glassdoor,ZipRecruiter.\par
\b\i 3. Online Shopping:\b0\i0 Today there are many such applications on the Internet, through which you can buy anything online. Such as - Mobile, Tablet PC, Computers, Watch, Smart Watch, Television, Fan,\par
 Table Fan, LED Bulb, Glasses, Ring, Jewellers, Camera, Home Appliances, clothes, etc.Through these shopping applications, you can order any item of your need sitting at home. We have given below\par
 the names of some shopping applications, from which you can shop.\par
\b For example\b0 :Amazon,FlipKart,Paytm Mall,ShopClues,Myntra,Snapdeal,Meesho.\par
\b\i 4. Web Browsing:\b0\i0 Web browser is also an important Internet application, in earlier times, any user used to have a lot of trouble to do Internet travel, because at that time there were no good browsers \par
so that people could do web browsing. But today there is more than one web browser, which you can use to search anything on the Internet.\par
\b For example:\b0 Internet Explorer,Google Chrome,Mozilla Firefox,Safari,Opera\par
\b\i 5. Stock Market Updates:\b0\i0 It was not like this a few years ago, because you had to take the help of a broker to buy or sell someone, so that that broker also used to take commission from you.But today \par
through internet application you can buy or sell any stock without any broker and can also read the information of stock market moment by moment.\par
\b For example:\b0 Upstox Pro App,Zerodha Kite,Angel Broking,Groww app.\par
\b\i 6. Travel:\b0\i0 If you have to travel this way, now you have no need to worry, because you can get all the information about your journey through the internet.Today, there are many such Internet applications,\par
 so they make your journey even easier. You can book travel tickets, hotels, taxis, etc. through these internet applications.\par
\b For example:\b0 MakeMyTrip,Cleartrip,Goibibo,Agoda,Booking.com\par
\b\i 7. Research:\b0\i0 Research means to do deep research about a subject or to know everything about that subject. Doing research is no small task, it takes a lot of time and effort to do research about anything.\par
 Research is not done by common people, but by scientists or Ph.D. students.\b\i\par
\i0 For example:\b0 Google Keep,Curiosity,Paperity,Slack,DropBox\par
\b\i 8. E-Commerce:\b0\i0 E-commerce is also a good applications of internet platforms. Today e-commerce is in full swing all over the world. Today, at present, millions of merchants around the world are selling \par
their products through e-commerce.E-commerce means putting your shop online and selling any of your items online. By doing this, your business becomes local to global, that is, you can sell your goods \par
to the people of other cities as well.\par
\b For example:\b0 Amazon,Flipkart,Meesho,Shopify,Paytm Mall.\par
\b\i 9. Online Payments:\b0\i0 There are many benefits of online payment. For example - you do not need to carry cash, there is no need to spare money in taking any item. You can pay any bill through an online \par
payment. For example, electricity bill, mobile bill, telephone bill, water bill, cylinder bill, movie bill, hotel bill, restaurant bill, shopping bill, etc\par
\b For example:\b0 Paytm,PhonePe,Google Pay,BharatPe,Amazon Pay\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\b\i 10. Social Networking:\b0\i0 Social networking is also a good platform, through which you talk to people. Today millions of people around the world are using social networking sites. Through social networking\par
sites, you can make connections with friends, family, classmates, customers, and clients.You can also promote your business through social networking sites. Today, there are many such Internet\par
networking applications that you can use to do your kind of work. \par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\b For example:\b0 Facebook,Instagram,Twitter,LinkedIn,YouTube,Pinterest\par
\b\i 11. E-Banking:\b0\i0 E-banking is also known as online banking and internet banking. E-banking is one of the best features of the banking sector because, through e-banking, bank customers can now do all \par
banking work sitting at home.There are many benefits of using e-banking. Such as - online account opening, money transfer, NEFT, passbook check, bill payment, loan, etc.\b\i\par
\i0 For example:\b0 Kotak- 811,ICICI iMobile,YONO SBI,HDFC PayZapp,Bank of Baroda M-Connect Plus\par
\b\i 12. E-Learning:\b0\i0 There are many benefits of e-learning, just imagine the students who live in the village, and the city is far away from their village, so those students can now study online by staying in \par
their village through e-learning without going to the city.To study through e-learning, you must have a smart device and internet connection, only then you can study online.Through e-learning, you can\par
study any subject or you can also prepare for any competitive exam. \par
\b For example:\b0 Byjus,Topper,Vedantu,Unacademy,Quick Learn Computer.\par
\b\i 13. Entertainment:\b0\i0 If you are getting bored alone, then there is no need for you to worry, because today you can be entertained through the medium of the internet.Today there are many such internet\par
applications that can entertain you. You can watch anything on these entertainment applications. Like - Movies, Web series, Cartoons, Serials, Cricket, News, Comedy, etc.\par
\b For example:\b0 Netflix,VOOT,Disney+ Hotstar,Amazon Prime,Sony Liv.\par
\par
\b\fs44 WWW:\par
\b0\fs24 World Wide Web, which is also known as a Web, is a collection of websites or web pages stored in web servers and connected to local computers through the internet. These websites contain text pages,\par
digital images, audios, videos, etc. Users can access the content of these sites from any part of the world over the internet using their devices such as computers, laptops, cell phones, etc. The WWW, \par
along with internet, enables the retrieval and display of text and media to your device.\par
\par
The building blocks of the Web are web pages which are formatted in HTML and connected by links called "hypertext" or hyperlinks and accessed by HTTP. These links are electronic connections that link\par
 related pieces of information so that users can access the desired information quickly. Hypertext offers the advantage to select a word or phrase from text and thus to access other pages that provide \par
additional information related to that word or phrase.\par
\par
A web page is given an online address called a Uniform Resource Locator (URL). A particular collection of web pages that belong to a specific URL is called a website, e.g., {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK www.facebook.com }}{\fldrslt{www.facebook.com\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs24 ,\par
 {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK www.google.com }}{\fldrslt{www.google.com\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs24 , etc. So, the World Wide Web is like a huge electronic book whose pages are stored on multiple servers across the world.\par
\par
\par
\par
}
 